GXP Phone Watcher

Michael Pilgermann (kichkasch@gmx.de)
Version 0.1 (2008-09-07)

GXP Phone Watcher visualises notifcation messages in the tray area of your desktop (Gnome) whenever there is
any relevant call event occuring on your Grandstream GXP 2000 phone.

GXP Phone Watcher was developed on a Linux Box (Ubuntu) and was only tested on this plattform too. It is
likely to be working with other Linux distributions; due to dependancies there is no way to make it running on
a Windows Box.

How does it work?
In fact, there is no proper interface built in the phone for notification purposes like this. However, the phone
is capable of redirecting syslog messages to a syslog server - we make use of this.
Basically, all we had to do are the following steps:
1. Direct syslog output of the phone to our host (to be configured on the phone)
2. Configure our syslog server to receive these messages and put them in a fifo
3. Create a small program for parsing the fifo content and pass on relevant information to a gui frontend
4. Create a gui frontend receiving this relevant information and displaying it on the desktop

This way, GXP Phone Watcher is made up by two components - a program for parsing the syslog messages
in the fifo and a GUI client application.

Installation
========
Make sure the following things are installed prior to installation:
- a Python installation (I used 2.5.2)
- Python-GTK2
- The package "python-gnome2-extras" - the gui is based on a component from this package (egg.trayicon)
- The syslog-ng logging application installed and running

For now - instructionsn for manual installation (Ubuntu based); an automatic routine might follow:
1. Configure your phone (in "Advanced Settings" apply the IP address of your machine on the option "syslog server")
2. Configure your syslog-ng configuration (see "howto-syslog-ng.txt" in this folder for details)
3. Copy all files to the proper locations on the system:
    sudo cp GXPPhoneWatcherListener.py /usr/sbin
    sudo cp GXPPhoneWatcherClient.py /usr/bin
    sudo cp gxpphonewatcherrc /etc/init.d/
4. Apply required permissions on these files
    sudo chmod 755 /usr/sbin/GXPPhoneWatcherListener.py
    sudo chmod 755 /usr/bin/GXPPhoneWatcherClient.py
    sudo chmod 755 /etc/init.d/gxpphonewatcherrc
5. Start Listener as a service on system start up: (due to pipe dependancies must be started before syslog-ng)
    sudo update-rc.d gxpphonewatcherrc defaults 9
6. To start up the client application automatically when logging on, go through the following steps:
    Open on the Desktop: System / Preferences / Sessions
    "Add" a new Startup Program - in the dialog apply:
        "GXP Phone Watcher Applet" for Name
        "/usr/bin/GXPPhoneWatcherClient.py" for command
    "OK" and "Close" ... and off you go!
    
There is also an option to check the number of the incoming call in a database and pick up a name for it. See "database-howto.txt"
for details on this.
    
ToDO
====
general:
- Doc: Architecture overview (diagram)
- Doc: database howto
- Doc: comments (epydoc) / documentation

listener (server):
- finish list of message types
- support for several clients (GUIs - network servers)
- proper defintion of variables (database connectivity - configuration ...)
- do logging properly (configurable or proper default values)

gui:
- check status of listener and indicate failure
- evaluate status messages
- maybe change color of icon depending on the status of the lines
- cross plattform (pygtk.statusicon does not come with a notification text (baloon) - only tooltip text
